Part One
1. Repository, archive for storing files for a project(s)
2. Commit, "Save"
3. Commit hash, is a hexidecimal construct that can is used to identify each commit in the repository.


Branches
1. Branches can be used to try out new ideas, or we could be a development team working on different parts of a project, maybe debugging code. Then we can merge
the branche(s) back in to the main branch.
2. Main is the master branch of the repository.
3. We can create a new branch from a new commit so we dont have to create the branch before hand we can create it on the fly when we do a commit.
4. Branching makes it easier to define labels for the changes and commits rather than just relying on the history of commits.
5. Insights and network option provides a graphical view of the commits to the repository and the brnaches, very useful for project topology.

Pull Requests & Merge
1. Branch requests that changes are pulled in to mian. So main has to pull the changes from the branch and merge them back in to main.
2. Click on Compare & Pull Request.
3. Click on create pull request.
4. Click on Merge pull request.
5. Click on confirm merge.
6. Insights & Network will now show that the branch has merged back in to main.

Fork & Pull Requests
1.Fork is the ability to take a full repository in gitHub in one account and make a duplicate of it to work on in your account.
2. Pull requesting, send a pull reuqest and the destination has to accept the request to pull it in. Push changes out, and the destination chooses to pull in to the repository.
3. Make sure that you comment your commits well.
4. You could create a new branch to denote changes for other users, easier to read and visually see in insights, network.
5. Propose file change for changes to a forked repository.
6. So by using Fork we can ammend a repositoy in gitHub and then  pass the whole project\repository back to the other user, commenting commits or adding a seperate
branch to highlight the changes made, so the main owner of the repository can accept the pull request and merge the changes in themselves, they can then choose to
merge the branch containing any changes back in to main if they so desire.
7. As as part of accepting the pull request you can comment, such as thank you for this change etc...

gitHub Issues
1. Issues Tab is a space to leave messages about issues peratining to a problem such as a bug in the code etc... Feature request, questions etc...
2. You can drag image files and screen shots in but you need to do a CTRL + V for embedding the file otherwise justt he link url gets copied in.
3. You can add labels, assign to users, submit issues etc..
4. Issues are open until closed and resolved.
5. Refer to issues in comments using the issue id number prefixed with a #10
6. Once this is commited then you can see on the issue that said user has added an entry that addresses this issue.
7. This creates an audit log of issues and we can click on the changes that have resolved the issue.
8. If the author of the issue believes that the change has fixed the issue, they can click on done.
9. We can use the fixes keyword with # issue number and this will automatically close the issue.
10. Each close creates a commit id so we can reference the fixes directly using the hash code.
11. We can reference a comit in a fix of an issue. 
12. Copy the hash code from the browser and you can create an issue references a commit. This makes it easier to get directly to the changes, paste the hash code
in to the text of the issue. This resolves to a link in the text that takes you directly to the commit.

Working with gitHub command Line
1. Unix commands
2. CD change directory
3. pwd pritn working directory
4. ls lists current working directory contents.
5. Open . from a terminator shell opens the curretn directory in an explorer window.
6. Use the Tab key to autofill directories etc..
7. export PS1="Command Prompt > "      Choose your prompt text
8. Cd drag and drop directory saves typing in a long directory path.

Working with Git locally
1. git command in the terminal lists all the commands.
2. Create a git repository locally, 
3. Cloning take a gitHub repository and copying it locally to modify using git
4. Create a repository on gitHub and then click on Code and select the path of the repository for cloning
5. git clone https://github.com/JosephCoder76/Its-Local-Baby.git 
6. edit with vim, save by using :wq!
7. git status
8. git add, adds a file to staging prior to a comit.
9. get commit -a skips the staging area and comitts the changes to the repository. -a switch commits all
10. commit - a  -m "This is commiting my first change using git"
11. update your account details for git to use.
12. use git config --list to check username and email have been set correctly.
13. git status to check changes have taken place.
14. git log lists the history of the commits you can use -2 to list justt he last 2 commits.
15. Push act of sending to gitHubm, pull is the other way.
16. git remote, gitHub is a remote instance of your repository
17. git remote lists all the remotes asscoiated with my repository
18. git remote -v lists the url of the remote gitHub servers associated with the repository
19. git push remote name of branch
20.git push origin main

https://docs.github.com/en/github/authenticating-to-github/keeping-your-account-and-data-secure/creating-a-personal-access-token

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

$ git clone https://github.com/username/repo.git
Username: your_username
Password: your_token


git push origin main
Username: your_username
Password: your_token
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


Git Init and Add
1. Create a new repository locally using git
2. git init 
3. git status now lists all the untracked files.
4. Now we need to track these files in this directory using git
5. Workflow with git
6. git add (this add the files to the staging area) so they are not yet commited to the repository.
7. So we can check in and out files from the staging areas before makign final commits.
8. git add adds to the staging area
9. git comit -a does add and comitt all at once.
10. So lets do staging first
11. git add . the period adds all the files and directories in toi the repository
12. So now all my files and sub directories are tracked and have been added to the staging area.
13. git status lists all the files in staging ready for commit
14. git rm <file-name>, removes a defined file from the staging area
15. git rm - r . removes all the files and directories from the current path
16.



